# Moving_Particles_3D_Video_Plot

This project is a part of my Student Job in Leibniz-Institut für Werkstofforientierte Technologien (IWT) Universität Bremen. In this project, 3D plot of two moving liquid particles has been drawn in MATLAB. In the following two paragraphs, I am going to present the background of this project.


Process starts with dropping two droplets of a liquid into a chamber where they are exposed to flame. Due to application of flame, two droplets start burning while moving. This movement of droplets is captured in videos with two high speed cameras. The purpose of using two cameras is to find 3D location of droplets. One camera provides the X-Y view of two droplets whereas other camera provides Y-Z view.
Videos obtained by means of both cameras are used in a separate code to find the exact 3D location (x, y, z coordinates) of centre points of droplets, changing speed and changing size. Changing speed of droplets is defined in terms of velocity and changing size is defined in terms of changing diameter of droplets. These values are obtained in terms of pixels which are translated into micrometers using a scaling factor. As the droplets are moving and burning at the same time, therefore same videos are threshold with a different value to find the changing diameter of flame around droplets. 3D location and moving velocity of flames are exactly the same as those of droplets because the flames are surrounding the liquid droplets. All these results are saved in a Microsoft Excel File.


The work uptill now is done in a separate code which is not a part of this repository. Work in this project starts with the assumption that 3D location, changing diameter and changing velocity of droplets is already provided in a Microsoft Excel File. Each row of the Microsoft Excel File represents all the above mentioned information in one frame of original video. The code in this project simply loads this information and uses it to draw a 3D plot of these droplets. 3D plot is drawn for each frame and then all these frames are combined in the code to produce a 3D video. In the video, two droplets are represented with red and green coloured spheres. Off-white coloured spheres around droplets represent the flame. Blue coloured arrows show the direction of movement of droplets whereas magnitudes of arrows represent the moving speed. Trajectories of two droplets are also plotted to show the movement path of droplets throughout the time. 


This paragraph describes the structure of this repository. “Code.m” is the full working code of this project. Code has been properly commented so its not hard to understand the working procedure. “Three_Dimensional_plot.xlsx” is the Microsoft Excel file containing all information of droplets. There are 386 rows in Excel file containing information which means that 386 3D images will be generated in this code. All these images are then combined in a video with frame rate of 30 fps which provide a 12 seconds video. The video is provided in this repository with the name “Video_3D.mp4”. Since its useless to provide all images therefore, among 386 output 3D images, 40 images are provided in the folder “3D_images”.
